>> Jen Kramer: So Rita, go ahead and
get started with our very
first exercise for today.
If you take a look inside of your files,
I don't show you where exactly.
Folder number one is called
the intro hype and float.
Look inside of the begin folder.
What we're going to do is we're
gonna create a 4-column floated grid
with the given starting files.
And we're gonna include
two break points for that.
You can pick wherever you
wanna do those break points.
We'll call it three layouts, and
then we've called them broadly desktop,
tablet, and phone.
Although we know that phones
are now the size of tablets, and
desktops are the size of phones.
And I know it's really crazy but
they're still handy to have these
sort of buckets to put things in.
If you have extra time, you can look
into how to equalize those columns, so
they wrap without breaking and you could
also consider reordering in row three.
So, let me show you the files and
we'll get started on that.
>> Jen Kramer: So here, close those.
What we're going to do, is we're going
to go into the day-1 Flexbox folder.
We're going to go into Chapter 1,
into to Flexbox.
We're going to go into the Begin folder.
Going ahead and open up floats.html.
This is your starting HTML.
>> Jen Kramer: And
if you go into floats.css,
you'll see that we have
some starting CSS for it.
I'll go ahead and
display this on a page for you.
So, this is what this
looks like right now.
We have a whole bunch of pie
as I promised, pretty simple.
We have a heading,
an image, a paragraph, and
a read more length it goes
to various websites, okay?
So, a whole bunch of stuff that's
stacked on top of each other.
In the HTML, if you take a look,
I've made a comment for
you At the start of what
should become a row.
So for row one, what I'd like to see
is four boxes going across, one, two,
three, four.
For row two, I'd like to see
two boxes spanning two rows.
So a two and a two, okay?
Row four, which should actually
be row three, sorry, row three.
A narrow left column and
a wider right column so like a one and
a three kind of combination.
And in row four go ahead and
make one big giant, huge, fat column.
In your CSS, you'll see that we have
the following, the following code.
So, let's go through this,
a little bit of this really quickly, so
you understand what's going on here.
The first twelve lines
of this style sheet,
does anyone know what's
going on here with this?
The first twelve lines of floats.css,
your beginning style sheet.
Do you know what's going on in
those first 12 lines of code?
>> Speaker 2: Has to do with padding?
>> Jen Kramer: Has to do with padding?
Hmm, not so much.
>> Speaker 2: The way that it
calculates the width of the box.
>> Jen Kramer: It has to
do with the box model.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Initializing it?
>> Jen Kramer: Kind of initializing it.
Sort of, okay.
So, if we think about a box model,
right now, right?
You all remember the box model?
Content, padding, border, margin, right?
And if we were working
on adding things up.
Say, a total width of an area.
We add together what to get a total width?
We add together the margin left and right.
The border left and right.
I'm looking at you, Peter, because you-
>> Peter: Padding.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: The padding left and right,
and the content in the middle.
The content is what normally get declared
as with colon whatever it happens to be,
that's just content, right?
Okay, so this, that’s called
the content box model, by the way.
This declaration that’s on the top here
switches us to the border box model.
So, what the border box model says is
now when I say width colon on my screen.
We’re going to have the actual
width of the content
plus the width of the padding
plus the width of the border.
All of those things together becomes width
colon whatever that number happens to be.
So we have now width and
margin as we total things up on the page,
does that make sense?
Okay, so
that is the concept of the border box.
Now, border box is not
an inherited property.
As you know, some things are inherited
in CSS, and some things are not.
So in our first declaration, from lines
three to five, the html tag we put
this border box declaration on it, 'coz
that's the very first tag in our document.
But then we want to have that
same property inherited by
everything else, right?
So in lines 8 to 12 here, we say *.
Everybody familiar with * as the selector?
What does * mean?
>> Speaker 6: All?
>> Speaker 7: Everything.
>> Jen Kramer: Everything, so
we say everything in the universe and
everything that comes before that and
after that.
Inherit the box sizing model from HTML,
okay?
So this is a little incantation that you
can stick at the top of your CSS and
make your math life so
much easier when working with layouts.
I have given you the reference for
that on the top here in line two,
that's Paul Irish who wrote about this.
Box sizing using border box, for the win.
All right, you could go read about that.
Okay, so what I'd like for
you to do then is to go on ahead and
you can read the instructions again that
are inside of the folder number one.
I'd like you to take,
let's see we're at ten o'clock,
why don't you take until 10:30.
And going ahead and
tackle some of those float-based layouts.
And when we come back and reconvene at
10:30, I'll show you what my solution is.
Based on what I'm seeing here in the
classroom, some people have some common
questions and problems for
working with this particular exercise.
So I'm looking at the files
from the end folder.
If you take a look at the files
from the end folder here.
You'll see that we have a layout
that looks kind of like this
in my Martha Stewart colors,
an homage to the 90s.
And what we've got here, if you think
about this as a desktop layout,
we have row one with
a series of four boxes.
We have row two with each piece
of content occupying two columns.
We have row three,
where we have a one out of three.
And then, we have our final row where we
have a piece of content occupying all four
columns.
So, if this is as far as you can
get in the time that you have
working on this particular exercise,
that's great.
Just write it for desktop.
Don't worry so
much about the media queries.
If you were to shrink this down,
let's say to quote tablet size,
our screen is gonna look like,
there we go.
So, maybe we have a two and a two.
So our row of four switches
to two over two, okay?
Maybe our second row, the two in the two,
maybe they stay next to each other,
maybe they stack.
These are design decisions, so
there's no absolute answer on this,
either of those would be acceptable.
For the one in the three,
normally that would be your one column
will have things like navigation or
advertisements or
other kinds of sidebar-ish
sort of information.
And then the three column would
normally have like the article or
the main focus of the page.
So I've just stacked those two on
top of each other, a one and a one.
And then the final row of course,
just continues to shrink down.
And then when we get to
mobile dimensions and
we stack these all on top of each other.
Then obviously everything just stacks on
top of each other one after the other,
straight on down the page.
In terms of your approach, remember that
there's two components to putting together
a float-based grid system.
One is the row,
one is the individual cells.
So the individual cells
are typically gonna contain a width.
They're gonna contain a float, and
often they contain a margin, all right?
And remember that since we're
working with the border box and
we're working with four columns,
the math becomes really easy.
So if we think about our
widths in percents and
our margins in percents,
then we have four boxes.
And let's say each one of
those is 20% wide, and
if we have a marging of 4% say on
the left We have five of those.
So the math will wind up working
out such that you'll wind up with
a total width of the row of about 96%.
And the extra 4% is as wide as
you have for the margin anyway.
It'll wind up on the right hand side.
So you can take a look at the end state
if you're still wondering exactly
how all of that math works.
But remember, so
the cell is going to have width,
it's gonna have a float property
associated with it and a margin property.
The row itself does the clearing, so
you need some kind of formula to do
the clear on that, because if you float,
you must clear, remember that?
So each row will have its own
clear associated with it,
the cells are what is floated.